Before we start our first course project, let's take a look at the options.
So this is still the query editor and we have to close that to access the options menu,
so we go to the home ribbon and press close and apply.
Now we're back in the data model
and before we change the options,
one important note again. In the options, we have two option types available, Global Options and Current
File options. The global options are set for all Power BI projects, the current file options as the name
says actually are only true for the current file where
you set those options.
So this means we have to open a new Power BI project which we will then use for our course project
to make sure that the options are set correctly.
Now let's do this.
So we go to the file ribbon, press new, now it takes a few seconds to load that Power BI desktop
instance, here it is.
We can close that for a moment because we don't import any data right now
and we can now go to file again, go to options and settings,
here we see that we have data source settings which we will not take a look at right now
and we have options which we will select and in the options, you see that global and current file options.
We don't have to change that global options, so we can directly go to current file and the data load
section, here
I want to adjust three things.
The first thing I want to adjust is I want to unselect the automatic data detection.
This is not happening because I think this is a bad option,
this is a great option actually but I don't want the data to be detected automatically,
I want to do that on our own so that you'll see how this works and that you really get an understanding
on how Power BI desktop understands the data,
this is why we unselect this one. The same logic is true for the relationships, Power BI automatically
detects the relationships that might exist between the tables in your data model.
Nevertheless, although this works good,
we will unselect that to define that relationships on our own and to understand the relationships better,
so let's unselect that. And the last thing is the background data loading option,
this has simple performance reasons,
so the query editor is faster if you unselect that,
so let's do that. Now
we are fine,
we can now press OK to save the options and now we also have to save that project which will be our course
project because as we said, we have that option set for the current file only.
So if we start our project in a new file, then the options won't be set the way we did it right now.
So let's save that by clicking onto file and save as and I will call that 01 population because that's
what the data are going to be about
and you can now select a folder where you want to save that project and in the next video, we will start working
on the project.